Financial intermediation plays its role by transfer and allocation of scarce resources. It facilitates individuals with excess funds to invest in profitable projects on the one hand, while, on the other, it encourages the ones whose business is to die to borrow or to commence a new one. In this scenario the productive individuals may gain from financial intermediation directly and, in the long run, benefits start shifting toward the larger part of the society. The concept of financial intermediation becomes very limited when it comes to developing economies where greater share of the financial markets is held by the banks including domestic public, private, and foreign. Banks are considered the back bone of financial intermediation. \citep{bagehot1873lombard} argues that after holding required reserves the banks must lend money for the public welfare and economy. The banker together with the entrepreneur can promote the economic growth and industrial development rapidly \citep{schumpeter1934theory}. Banking institutions serve to promote national and regional economic growth by acting as financial intermediaries who modify the demand for loans and accommodate savings. Hence, banks are the most active players of the financial markets, having significant implications for overall financial and real sectors. The other side of the picture shows that the formal financial system is not sufficient to improve the wellbeing of disadvantaged people and to promote economic growth. However, the latter argument is somewhat weaker in the economic literature than the former. 
%\footnote{(Hamilton, 1781) established that banks were the happiest engines ever to promote economic activity.}.

The disproportionate effects of financial sector development on productive and unproductive individuals, small and large firms and heterogeneous sectors have also been a hot topic among researchers. Albeit distinct conjectures about finance growth link, several economists still believe that only richer and powerful people can get maximum benefit from a developed financial system. By virtue of the fact that formal financial system entails collateral from borrowers, poor lack collateral and, as a result, are left out from the conventional financial system. In this phenomena of moral hazards, the entry of poor in financial markets might be arduous even when these markets are well developed, ultimately end up in the state of inequality. Theoretical literature contains varied opinions regarding implication of financial development for poverty and inequality. A number of economists remain unconvinced while the others are optimistic about the long run poverty and inequality reducing effects of financial development. Marxist theory contends that financiers are greedy intermediaries who neglect the poor people and offer financial services only to the elite class of the society.   

\cite{levine1997financial,levine2005finance} revealed that research has no authenticated evidence regarding effect of financial development on overall population. However some evidence suggest that development of financial system reduces income inequality by expanding outreach, because availability and timely access to finance becomes possible for the poor households who were neglected previously,  may now have the opportunity to borrow from developed financial markets, as argued by
\citep{banerjee1991risk,galor1993income,clarke2006finance,ravallion2003measuring,honohan2004financial}. Furthermore, they also disapproved the concept that only rich can get maximum benefits from the development of financial sector. \citep{greenwood1990financial} developed a model to predict non-linearities in the finance growth and inequality relationship. They showed strong linkages among these important indicators. At first the upper class of society is sole beneficiary but as the financial system and growth mature, benefits start shifting to the larger part of the population. Financial development ensures efficient allocation of the capital which accelerates the aggregate growth. A developed financial system contributes directly to overall economic growth through domestic capital formation as well it affects indirectly via total factor productivity. The level of financial development translates into the aggregate production and allocation of credit that alters the demand for low and high skilled workers which therefore smooth distribution of income. On the other hand, economic development is also necessary condition for the growth and well-functioning of financial sector. It determines the net impact of financial development on poor.

Financial sector development contributes toward aggregate growth of the economy by encouraging different individuals, firms and sub-sectors \citep{roubini1992financial,king2004finance}. Financial development prevails disproportionate effects on firms and resource allocation across firms is considered the most important. It shows positive effects on firm performance, however there are contradictory opinions regarding the tendency of the impact on small and larger size firms, see for example \citep{galor1993income,king2004finance,beck2007finance}. According to the endogenous growth theory of \citep{greenwood1990financial,bencivenga1991financial} financial development accelerates long run economic growth by allocating resources, capital accumulation and technological advancement. %\citep{blackburn1998theory} also show that financial development accompanied by international trade liberalization foster economic development. \\

The rationale behind this study is that the rich class of the society might avail higher benefits from financial development  than low-income poor households. Although, the impact of financial development on poor has been under several criticisms, but some arguments have also been discussed in its favor. The emergence of the new endogenous growth theories turned the attention of development economists to this underline subject. They postulated different probabilities to this latent role of financial intermediation. However unable to glean any explicit picture, therefore this underlying relationship is yet open to criticism and under investigation. Furthermore, it is also believed that credit augmentation in an economy leads to financial crisis where it serves as an early warning indicator. Some also have the view that rapid credit expansion accompanied by financial instability adversely affects the lower end of the population and hence economy. In addition, financial volatility either originated from stock market or from banking sector influences the economy and poor devastatingly. 
%Our intent is to determine the long run effects of financial development on economic growth, poverty and inequality in Pakistan.
The stylized features of this research which makes it significant from others are: First, it is worth noting that we took consumption based measure of poverty i.e. household final consumption per capita, which is also used to measure the household welfare; second, this paper is devoted to determine simultaneously the effects of financial development and instability on poverty and inequality in Pakistan; third, it makes an attempt to study the link between credit expansion and financial instability. Finally, it also investigates the implications of macroeconomic volatility for household welfare and income distribution.  